URI: 0286Abdan

SHUHRA: @@`Abd_an@@
ISM: @@`Abd_an@@
NASAB1:
NASAB2:
LAQAB:
NISBA:
KUNYA:

BORN: unknown
DIED: 286AH

BIO: He is the brother-in-law of @@*Hamd_an Qarma*t@@ (NOURI) and like him comes from @@Quss Bahr_am@@ close to @@B_abil@@ [U:BABIL_444E325N_S]. They are converted together by @@al-*Husayn al-'Ahw_az_i@@ (NOURI) either in 261AH or 264AH. Following this they head the mission in @@al-Saw_ad@@, around @@al-K_ufa=t@@ [U:KUFA_443E320N_S], with @@`Abd_an@@ focussing on the rural areas. From his converts he appoints a head @@d_a`?i*n@@ for each district that each have a number of @@du`_a=t@@. Among the bedouins he is likewise successful, the majority of them join @@al-da`wa=t@@. From the converts he and his brother-in-law collect taxes in the name of the promised @@al-Mahd_i@@, that are either sent to @@Salam_iya=t@@ [U:SALAMIYYA_370E350N_S] or saved locally, they enjoin on their followers the principle of @@al-'ulfa=t@@, meaning that everyone has to share their material belongings with all the other believers, and from 276AH they command them to buy and secretly store weapons. During all this @@`Abd_an@@ is in close contact with @@al-*Hujja=t@@ @@'Ab_u al-^Sala*gla*g@@ (NOURI) in @@Salam_iya=t@@ [U:SALAMIYYA_370E350N_S] via carrier pigeons. In the year 277AH or 279AH he begins to fortify a @@d_ar al-hijra=t@@ in the village @@Mahtam_ab_ad@@ in the province @@al-Fur_at@@ close to @@al-K_ufa=t@@ [U:KUFA_443E320N_S]. Only during summer 284AH the gouvernor of @@al-K_ufa=t@@ [U:KUFA_443E320N_S] starts to approach the @@'ism_a`_il_i@@ villages in @@al-Saw_ad@@, the region around @@al-K_ufa=t@@ [U:KUFA_443E320N_S], militarilly and sends some of the arrested @@'Ism_a`_il_iya=t@@ to @@Ba*gd_ad@@ [U:BAGHDAD_443E333N_S]. From the interrogations it becomes apparent that the connections of @@*Hamd_an Qarma*t@@ (NOURI) and @@`Abd_an@@ even reached officials in @@Ba*gd_ad@@ [U:BAGHDAD_443E333N_S]. When @@'Ab_u al-^Sala*gla*g@@ (NOURI) passes away in 286AH, his brother-in-law becomes suspicious of the true intentions of @@Sa`_id bn al-*Husayn@@ (NOURI), his successor as @@al-*Hujja=t@@, and sends @@`Abd_an@@ to the headquarters in @@Salam_iya=t?u@@ [U:SALAMIYYA_370E350N_S]. After it becomes clear to him that @@Sa`_id bn? al-*Husayn@@ (NOURI) isn’t advancing the cause of the hidden @@al-'Im_am@@ @@Mu*hammad bn 'Ism_a`_il@@ (NOURI) but considers himself as the true @@al-Mahd_i@@ he and his brother-in-law instruct all @@al-du`_a=t@@ in @@al-Saw_ad@@, the region around @@al-K_ufa=t@@ [U:KUFA_443E320N_S], to suspend @@al-da`wa=t@@ and the schism of @@al-Qar_ami*ta=t@@ ensues. He is later visited by an envoy from @@Sa`_id bn al-*Husayn@@ (NOURI), probably a brother of his, who tries to win back his loyalty. When he doesn’t succeed he incites @@Zakar_uya=t bn Mihr_uya=t@@ [U:0294Zakaroye], a son of one of @@`Abd_an@@’s first followers, to plotting his murder. This plot succeeds and followers of @@Zakar_uya=t bn Mihr_uya=t@@ [U:0294Zakaroye] from the clan @@Tam_im@@ of the tribe @@Kulayb@@ who live west of @@al-K_ufa=t@@ [U:KUFA_443E320N_S] kill him during a night in his home in the village @@N_as_ur_a@@. At least until 315AH his followers still act in the name of the hidden @@al-'Im_am@@ @@Mu*hammad bn 'Ism_a`_il@@ (NOURI), have scriptures with his alleged authorship circulate and believe that he is still alive. [@halm_reich_1991] Among the later composed books ascribed to him are the Book of the Brilliant Truth, the Book of the clear Truth, and the Book of “In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful”. [@stern_early_1960]
