URI: 0294Zakaroye

SHUHRA: @@Zakar_uya=t@@
ISM: @@Zakar_uya=t@@
NASAB1: @@Ibn Mihr_uya=t@@
NASAB2:
LAQAB:
NISBA:
KUNYA:

BORN: unknown
DIED: 294AH

BIO: @@Zakar_uya=t bn Mihr_uya=t@@ is the son of one of @@`Abd_an@@’s first missionaries in @@al-Saw_ad@@ and comes from the village @@al-Mays_an_iya=t@@ close to @@al-*Saw'ar@@, four miles west of @@al-Q_adis_iya=t@@ [U:QADISIYYA_441E316N_S]. He himself is appointed as @@d_a`?i*n@@ in this district, @@al-*Sayla*h_in@@, and advances @@al-da`wa=t@@ among the tribe @@Kulayb@@ west of @@al-K_ufa=t@@ [U:KUFA_443E320N_S]. After the split in 286AH between @@`Abd_an@@ and the new @@al-*Hujja=t@@ in @@Salam_iya=t@@ [U:SALAMIYYA_370E350N_S], @@Sa`_id bn al-*Husayn al-Mahd_i@@, he is visited by an envoy from @@Sa`_id bn al-*Husayn@@, probably a brother of his, who successfully pulls him over to his side when he promises him that he will be the next head of the @@`ir_aq_i@@ cell. @@Zakar_uya=t@@ begins plotting @@`Abd_an@@’s murder and has some of his followers from the clan @@Tam_im@@ of the tribe @@Kulayb@@ kill @@`Abd_an@@. His involvement is apparent and he has to hide for a year in the house of a family member. In 287AH he appears again and agitates among the clans of @@'Asad@@, @@*Tayyi'@@ and @@Tam_im@@, but he fails to convince them that the other @@al-Qarma*t_iy_un@@ would unite with them after they follow him. In 288AH he turns to bedouins further west of @@al-Fur_at@@ [U:NAHRFURAT_412E344N_W] and sends two of his sons, @@al-*Husayn@@ and @@Ya*hy/a@@, to the tribe @@al-Kalb@@ in the desert of @@al-Sam_awa=t@@. The clan @@Ban_u al-`Ullay*s@@ and their clients as well as parts of the clan @@Ban_u al-'A*sba*g@@ join the followers of @@al-Mahd_i@@ in @@Salam_iya=t@@ [U:SALAMIYYA_370E350N_S]. In 289AH the envoy mentioned above, the assumed brother of @@al-Mahd_i@@, visits @@Zakar_uya=t@@ in his hiding place in @@al-`Ir_aq@@, who sends him, together with his nephew and one of his slaves, to his son @@al-*Husayn@@ with the @@Ban_u al-`Ullay*s@@. When his sons are militarilly defeated, @@Zakar_uya=t@@ sends a letter to the @@Ban_u al-`Ullay*s@@, saying that after the death of their leaders the time has come now for the true @@al-'im_am@@, namely @@al-Mahd_i@@, to come forth victorious. However, @@Ibn S_im_a@@, the governor of @@al-Ra*hba=t@@ [U:RAHBAMALIKIBNTAWQ_404E349N_S], preemptively attacks the @@Ban_u al-`Ullay*s@@ in @@Rama*d_an@@ of 291AH. In early 293AH he sends one of his missionaries, @@'Ab_u *G_anim Na*sr@@, to the Palmyrene region, who again rallies his supporters and raids several cities before he is killed by unhappy followers. @@Zakar_uya=t@@’s last envoy to that region is @@al-Q_asim bn 'A*hmad@@ who promises the appearance of @@al-Mahd_i@@ and who can again gather some 800 men to raid @@al-K_ufa=t@@ [U:KUFA_443E320N_S] on the @@`_Id al-'A*d*h/a@@ of 293AH. When they retreat to @@al-*Saw'ar@@, close to @@Zakar_uya=t@@’s hiding place in @@al-Darya=t@@, west of @@al-Q_adis_iya=t@@ [U:QADISIYYA_441E316N_S], he finally reveals himself and has @@al-Q_asim@@ lead them to the edge of the area that is watered by the Euphrates near @@al-*Saw'ar@@. There the government troops catch up with them on 20th or 21st of @@_D_u al-*Hijja=t@@ but are defeated by @@Zakar_uya=t@@’s men. Encouraged by this victory they target the pilgrims’ caravan coming back from pilgrimage in @@Makka=t@@ [U:MAKKA_398E213N_S]. On 13th or 14th of @@Mu*harram@@ in 294AH they encounter the second of three caravans at the standpipe of @@al-`Aqaba=t@@ [U:AQABA_436E300N_S]. After some resistence they beat the small escort and loot the riches they can find. The news from this defeat quickly reaches @@Ba*gd_ad@@ [U:BAGHDAD_443E333N_S] and the government sends another army to save the third caravan. The two armies meet on 22nd @@Rab_i` al-'Awwal@@ of 294AH in @@W_ad_i _D_i Q_ar@@ and within the next two days the bedouins are slaughtered and @@Zakar_uya=t@@ is slain. His corpse is conserved, brought to @@Ba*gd_ad@@ [U:BAGHDAD_443E333N_S] and shown to the public. Still for some time rumours are heard in the villages of @@al-Saw_ad@@ that @@Zakar_uya=t@@ wasn’t dead but would soon reappear. [@halm_reich_1991]
