URI: 0298AbuAbdallahShii

SHUHRA: @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@
ISM: @@al-*Husayn@@
NASAB1: @@Ibn 'A*hmad@@
NASAB2: @@Ibn Zakar_iy_a'@@
LAQAB: @@al-^S_i`_i@@
NISBA: @@al-Ma^sriq_i@@
KUNYA: 

BORN: unknown
DIED: 298AH

BIO: @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ hails from @@al-K_ufa=t@@ [U: KUFA_443E320N_S] where he and his by one year older brother @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as@@ are recruited by a @@d_a`?i*n@@ with the name @@'Ab_u `Al_i@@. When he was sent to @@al-Fus*t_a*t@@ [U: FUSTAT_312E300N_S] in Egypt, @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah@@ and @@'Ab_u `Al_i@@ accompany him, with @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah@@ being his envoy to @@Ibn *Haw^sab@@ in @@al-Yaman@@. In 278AH he leaves Egypt on pilgrimage, and from @@Makka=t@@ [U:MAKKA_398E213N_S] continues on with @@yaman_i@@ pilgrims to @@al-Yaman@@. After nearly a year as a student of @@Ibn *Haw^sab@@, in 279AH, he goes back to Egypt, again via @@Makka=t@@ [U:MAKKA_398E213N_S]. In @@Min/a@@ [U:MINA_399E213N_S] near @@Makka=t@@ [U:MAKKA_398E213N_S] he and his companion meet pilgrims from the berber clan @@Kut_ama=t@@ who live close to @@al-Qus*tan*t_ina=t@@ [U:QUSTANTINIYYA_066E363N_S], some of whom are also @@^s_i`_iy_un@@. They travel together to Egypt and @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ manages to gain their trust. He learns that they live more or less independently from any authority since they live in a remote region, are large in number and well-versed in fighting. They ask @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah@@ to come with them and be a teacher among them and although outwardly reluctant he agrees. Via @@*Tar_abulus@@ [U:ATRABULUS_131E328N_S] and the oases in @@^Sa*t*t al-Jar_id@@ the caravan reaches @@S_ujm_ar@@
HERE
 and in early 280AH he enters the Small Kabylia and takes residence in @@'_Ikj_an@@ close to @@M_il_a@@ west of @@al-Qus*tan*t_ina=t@@ where the @@Ban_u Sakt_an@@ from the tribe @@J_imala=t@@ live. Here he starts holding meetings of wisdom (@@maj_alis al-*hikma=t@@), which he and his brother continue to hold even after @@Raqq_ada=t@@ is conquered, and he starts to spread his @@'ism_a`_il_i@@ beliefs; very soon this is the topic of speculation among the surrounding villages. During all this @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ has regular contact with @@'Ab_u `Al_i@@ in @@al-Fus*t_a*t@@ and with the headquarters in @@Salam_iya=t@@. Very soon the pressure becomes too high and @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ has to find a new refuge, he finds it with the @@Ban_u *Ga^sm_an@@ in @@T_azr_ut@@ where he constructs a @@d_ar al-hijra=t@@. There he gathers strength for several years, so that when the rulers of the three cities @@M_il_a@@, @@Sa*t_if@@ and @@Bilizma=t@@ unite with the not yet converted @@Kut_ama=t@@ his men win the battle. Following this he can convince many more of the berbers of the region to join his cause, the @@'Ijj_ana=t@@, the @@La*t_aya=t@@, the @@J_imala=t@@, the @@Mal_usa=t@@, the @@Danh_aja=t@@, the @@'_Ur_isa=t@@ and the @@Mas_alta=t@@ who had been @@_h_arij_iy_un@@. @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah@@ divides the @@Kut_ama=t@@ in seven, raises an army from each of these seven groups and appoints a leader for each. He claims no portion in the war loot and promotes asceticism and selfless mutual help. Only after being urged to he takes one of the captured slaves as his wife who carries his son. His reign also includes the application of harsh @@*hadd@@ punishments as well as punishments of shunning and exilation according to the degree of the misconduct. In 289AH his men conquer the first city in the region, @@M_il_a@@, however, it is reconquered in the same year in @@_D_u al-Qa`da=t@@ by @@al-'A*glab_iy_un@@. They can even drive the @@'ism_a`_il_i@@ troops away from @@T_azr_ut@@ and @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ has to take up camp in @@'_Ikj_an@@ again. In the wake of the murder of the reigning @@'am_ir@@ on 28th @@^Sa`b_an@@ of 290AH and the ensuing struggle of his son @@Ziy_ada=t All~ah@@ to stabilize his power, @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ can regain @@M_il_a@@ and even seizes control of @@Sa*t_if@@ at the end of 291AH. After the city’s governour’s passing away a berber of the tribe @@Lah_i*sa=t@@ gives the city away. In fall 292AH / 293AH, @@al-'A*glab_iy_un@@ try another military advance against the @@Kut_ama=t@@ berbers, however they are defeated shortly after leaving @@al-Qus*tan*t_ina=t@@. When @@Sa`_id bn al-*Husayn al-Mahd_i@@ comes to @@Sijilm_asa=t@@ in Morocco, @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ regularly exchanges letters with him urging him to come forth, which @@al-Mahd_i@@ refuses though. @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ even sends a military expedition of 100 men to @@Sijilm_asa=t@@, but they don’t come through. In the following years he can expand and conquer @@*Tubna=t@@ and @@Bilizma=t@@. In @@*Tubna=t@@ he abrogates all forms of taxes that are not grounded in @@al-Qur'_an@@. In @@^Sa`b_an@@ of 294AH some of the people of @@B_a*g_aya=t@@ open the gates of this important defensive stronghold of @@al-'A*glab_iy_un@@. In spring 295AH he and his troops can conquer some of the cities and forts along the road from @@B_a*g_aya=t@@ to @@Raqq_ada=t@@, namely @@Maydara=t@@ and @@al-Qa*srayn@@, before their expidition is stopped by @@al-'A*glab_iy_un@@ at @@D_ar Madyan@@ close to @@al-Qa*srayn@@. In @@Maydara=t@@ the berbers don’t keep their guarantee of safety and ransack the city and murder its people. Since @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ is ill he can’t stop them. Later @@al-'A*glab_iy_un@@ use this incident for their propaganda against @@al-'Ism_a`_il_iy_un@@ and @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ tries to find the responsible persons among his men, but can’ find them. In winter 296AH @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ advances again eastwards, this time conquering the oases of @@^Sa*t*t al-Jar_id@@ in @@Qas*t_iliya=t@@, @@T_uzur@@ and @@Naf*ta=t@@, and later @@Qaf*sa=t@@. A few months later, on 1st @@Jum_ad/a al-'Awwal@@ of 296AH, he has his men move from @@'_Ikj_an@@ against the city of @@al-'Aribus@@ where @@'Ibr_ah_im bn 'Ab_i al-'A*glab@@ awaits him with the @@'a*glab_i@@ troops. On the 21st @@Jum_ad/a al-_T_an_i@@ he can conquer @@^Siqqa=t Ban_ariya=t@@ and on the next day he defeats the army of @@al-'am_ir@@ on the plains before @@al-'Aribus@@. When the news of the defeat arrive at the court of @@Ziy_ada=t All~ah@@, he flees from @@Raqq_ada=t@@, and on 1st @@Rajab@@ of 296AH @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ moves into @@Raqq_ada=t@@. For @@al-Qayraw_an@@ he appoints a governour who is a @@`arab_i@@ from @@M_il_a@@, @@al-*Hasan bn 'A*hmad bn 'Ab_i _Hinz_ir@@. @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ extends his guarantee of safety first to @@al-Qayraw_an@@ and later to all of @@'Ifr_iqiy_a@@ which is now under his control. Since @@al-'Ism_a`_il_iy_un@@ have now gained enough strength to publicly defend their teachings @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ and his brother hold regular public disputations against @@m_alik_iy_un@@, such as @@'Ibr_ah_im bn al-_Ha^s^s_ab@@ and @@Ibn al-*Hadd_ad@@. The core of these disputations lies of course in the position of @@`Al_i@@ and the understanding of the saying of the prophet near the lake @@_Humm@@, where @@Mu*hammad@@, according to @@al-^S_i`_iy_un@@, designated his nephew as his successor and the one whose commands every @@muslim@@ has to follow. While his brother wants to purge the city from @@sunn_i@@ influences, @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ doesn’t give consent. Instead he appoints @@al-Marwarr_u_d_i@@ as head judge of @@al-Qayraw_an@@ who is ordered to base his rulings on sayings from the descendents of the prophet, @@al-'A'imma=t@@. A few months later his authority is established firmly enough that he can head another expedition to @@Sijilm_asa=t@@. He appoints @@'Ab_u Z_ak_i Tamm_am@@ as his representative with his brother @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as@@ as second in command and on 15th @@Rama*d_an@@ of 296AH he leaves west. On the way he defeats the berbers of the clan @@Zin_ata=t@@ close to @@*Tubna=t@@ and he puts an end to the rule of @@al-Yaq*z_an@@, @@al-'im_am@@ of @@al-_h_arij_iy_un@@, in @@T_ahirt@@ (according to some sources this was in 297AH). On 6th @@_D_u al-*Hijja=t@@ of 296AH he arrives at @@Sijilm_asa=t@@ and demands from the local ruler @@al-Yasa` bn Midr_ar@@ the release of @@al-Mahd_i@@. @@al-Yasa` bn Midr_ar@@ flees and @@al-Mahd_i@@ is instated as the new ruler of @@al-Ma*grib@@. On 23rd @@Mu*harram@@ of 297AH @@al-Mahd_i@@ heads the army marching eastwards. Both from @@Sijilm_asa=t@@ as well as from @@'_Ikj_an@@ where they rest for a few days on their way back, @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ sends letters to @@Raqq_ada=t@@ that are read from the pulpits announcing the arrival of @@al-Mahd_i@@. A few months later, on 18th @@Rab_i` al-_T_an_i@@, they arrive at @@Raqq_ada=t@@ and @@al-Mahd_i@@ ascends the throne. However, @@al-Mahd_i@@’s moral conduct astonishes many of the @@Kut_ama=t@@ berbers and also their teacher himself, @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@. A preamble to an oriental mirror for princes, that only appears in the @@f_a*tim_i@@ versions and can be attributed to @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@, can be read as a call of caution addressed to @@al-Mahd_i@@ not to forget moderation and humility. The first duties that @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ has to fulfil are military though. On 3rd @@_D_u al-Qa`da=t@@ of 297AH he is sent to the West. On 26th the same month he defeats @@Ibn _Hazar@@ and the @@Zin_ata=t@@ berbers close to @@*Tubna=t@@, he restores order in @@T_ahirt@@, and on 28th @@_D_u al-*Hijja=t@@ of 297AH he arrives at @@Tanas@@. In @@Tanas@@ the leading @@du`_a=t@@ and the @@Kut_ama=t@@ chiefs meet conspiratively and @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ voices his concern that he might have been mistaken about the identity of the promised @@mahd_i@@. They agree that they would test @@al-Mahd_i@@ upon their return. @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ continues with several campaigns against the berber clans @@Zin_ata=t@@ and @@*Sad_ina=t@@ and he returns back to @@Raqq_ada=t@@ only in winter 298AH. His co-conspirators are his brother @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as@@, the head @@^say_h@@ (@@^Say_h al-Ma^s_ayi_h@@) from the @@Kut_ama=t@@, @@H_ar_un bn Y_unus@@, @@'Ab_u Z_ak_i Tamm_am@@ and @@*Gazw_iya=t bn Y_usuf@@. They confront @@al-Mahd_i@@, but @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@ is reluctant to plot @@al-Mahd_i@@’s death, so he in turn has the time to eliminate his adversaries one by one. Through the help of the traitor @@*Gazw_iya=t bn Y_usuf@@ he makes @@H_ar_un bn Y_unus@@ his first victim, then follow @@'Ab_u Z_ak_i Tamm_am@@, @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as@@ and @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@. The two brothers are killed by @@*Gazw_iya=t bn Y_usuf@@ on 15th @@Jum_ad/a al-_T_an_i@@ of 298AH. In @@f_a*tim_i@@ history he is depicted as the victim of his brother who has supposedly insinuated the thought of treason to @@'Ab_u `Abd All~ah al-^S_i`_i@@. He writes an autobiography which is probably the main source for @@al-Nu`m_an@@’s @@Iftit_a*h al-Da`wa=t@@. [@halm_reich_1991]
