URI: 0298AbulAbbas

SHUHRA: @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@
ISM: @@Mu*hammad?u*n@@
NASAB1: @@Ibn?u 'A*hmad?a@@
NASAB2: @@Ibn?u Zakar_iy_a'?a@@
LAQAB: @@al-Ma_h*t_um?u@@, @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@
NISBA: 
KUNYA: 

BORN: unknown
DIED: 298AH

BIO: He and his by one year younger brother, @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`_iy?u@@, are converted in @@al-K_ufa=t?u@@ by a @@d_a`?i*n@@ with the name @@'Ab_u `Al_iy?i*n@@. When @@'Ab_u `Al_iy?i*n@@ moves to Egypt, he joins him and is his envoy between @@al-Fus*t_a*t?u@@ and @@Salam_iya=t?u*n@@. When in 289AH @@Sa`_id?u*n bn?u al-*Husayn?i al-Mahd_iy?u@@ has to flee from @@Salam_iya=t?u*n@@ he is one of his close followers that accompany him. They stay in @@al-Ramla=t?u@@ from 22nd @@_D_u al-Qa`da=t?i@@ of 289AH until early 291AH, when they continue to @@al-Fus*t_a*t?u@@ after the capture of @@al-*Husayn?u bn?u Zakar_uya=t?i*n@@. There they can stay for about another year with @@Ibn?u `Ayy_a^s?i*n@@ a disciple of @@'Ab_u `Al_iy?i*n@@. In spring 292AH they continue on towards @@al-Ma*grib?u@@. On the way, close to @@al-*T_a*h_una=t?u@@, halfway between @@al-'Iskandar_iya=t?u@@ and Cyrenaica, they encounter berber tribes who rob them. In the fight @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@’ face is wounded by a sword. The group stay for a while in @@*Tar_abulus?u@@ to wait for one of @@al-Mahd_iy?u@@’s slaves who was sent back to @@Salam_iya=t?u*n@@ to bring the treasures that were left behind. @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@ is sent ahead to @@al-Qayraw_an?u@@ though. However, the information about @@al-Mahd_iy?u@@ and his followers travelling west made it already to @@al-Qayraw_an?u@@ and @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@ is recognized and arrested upon entering the city in summer 292AH. Even under torture he repeats the claim that he was just a normal merchant, so his life is spared, and about one year later, on 11th @@Jum_ad/a al-'Awwal?u@@ of 293AH he is freed by rebelling troops who were rallied in order to defeat @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`_iy?u@@ and the tribes of @@Kut_ama=t?u*n@@. After some time in hiding in @@al-Qayraw_an?u@@ he can flee to @@*Tar_abulus?u@@ where @@al-Mahd_iy?u@@ had left his mother in the care of @@al-d_a`_i@@ with the name @@'Ab_u Ja`far?i*n al-_Hazar_iy?u@@. He contacts him, entering into a public dispute with him in order not to arouse suspicion. After @@al-'am_ir?u@@ of @@al-'A*glab_iy_un?a@@, @@Ziy_ada=t?u All~ah?i@@, flees from @@Raqq_ada=t?u@@ on 23rd @@Jum_ad/a al-_T_an_i@@ of 296AH, he passes by @@*Tar_abulus?u@@. There he has @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@ arrested and tortured again, but again he can’t break him and he has to let him go. @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@ then leaves to @@Raqq_ada=t?u@@ and reunites with his brother @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`_iy?u@@ who took reign of @@'Ifr_iqiy_a@@ in the name of @@al-Mahd_iy?u@@. Together they hold regular public disputations in @@al-Qayraw_an?u@@ against @@m_alik_iy_un?a@@, such as @@'Ibr_ah_im?u bn?u al-_Ha^s^s_ab?i@@ and @@Ibn?u al-*Hadd_ad?i@@. The core of these disputations lies of course in the position of @@`Al_iy?u*n@@ and the understanding of the saying of the prophet near the lake @@_Humm?u*n@@, where @@Mu*hammad?u*n@@, according to @@al-^S_i`_iy_un?a@@, designated his nephew as his successor and the one whose commands every @@muslim?u*n@@ has to follow. He wants to purge the city from @@sunn_iy?u*n@@ influences, but doesn’t receive his brother’s consent. When on 15th @@Rama*d_an?u@@ of 296AH @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`_iy?u@@ leaves with a large number of troops to @@Sijilm_asa=t?u*n@@ in order to bring @@al-Mahd_iy?u@@ to @@Raqq_ada=t?u@@ he leaves the control of his empire to @@'Ab_u Z_ak?i*n Tamm_am?u*n bn?u Mu`_arik?i*n@@ and appoints @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@ as his second in command. Without @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`_iy?u@@ and his troops from the @@Kut_ama=t?u*n@@ they face open opposition within a week, even from @@al-Marwarr_u_d_iy?u@@ whom @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`_iy?u@@ had appointed as head judge of @@al-Qayraw_an?u@@. @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@ is asked to hold an audience to dispel the rumours about the fate of his brother and his troops. He receives his guests with utmost hospitality and promises them many blessings in this world and the next should they follow his commands. Then he starts to openly attract followers to his creed. @@Al-Marwarr_u_d_iy?u@@ is ordered to base his rulings on sayings from the descendents of the prophet, @@al-'A'imma=t?u@@. @@M_alik?u*n@@ and @@'Ab_u *Han_ifa=t?i*n@@ are not to be referenced any more at court. In @@*Safar?u*n@@ of 297AH he has two @@`ulam_a'?u@@ arrested and executed after they had allegedly equalled the three first @@_hulaf_a'?u@@, @@'Ab_u Bakr?i*n@@, @@`Umar?u@@ and @@`U_tm_an?u@@, with @@`Al_iy?u*n bn?u 'Ab_i *T_alib?i*n@@. In winter 297AH @@al-Mahd_iy?u@@ finally approaches @@Raqq_ada=t?u@@, and even before he reaches his capital he is greeted by @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@ and a number of his devoted followers in @@Sab_iba=t?u*n@@ some 90 km away from @@al-Qayraw_an?u@@. However, he doesn’t take up his ensuing reign the way that some of his followers had expected. Especially @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`_iy?u@@ and @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@ are disappointed by his lack of detachment from material possessions and his endulgement in egoistic pleasures. Together with @@H_ar_un?u bn?u Y_unus?a@@, @@'Ab_u Z_ak?i*n Tamm_am?u*n@@ and @@*Gazw_iya=t?u*n bn?u Y_usuf?a@@ they confront @@al-Mahd_iy?u@@ in winter 298AH. When he has @@H_ar_un?u bn?u Y_unus?a@@ eliminated the group discuss overthrowing @@al-Mahd_iy?u@@, but mainly @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`_iy?u@@ is reluctant. After they are betrayed by @@*Gazw_iya=t?u*n bn?u Y_usuf?a@@, @@al-Mahd_iy?u@@ has the rest killed on 15th @@Jum_ad/a al-_T_an_i@@ of 298AH, including @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@ in @@Raqq_ada=t?u@@. According to @@f_a*tim_iy?u*n@@ propaganda he is the one who has had the bad influence on his brother. #Halm
