URI: 0300Jannabi

SHUHRA: @@'Ab_u Sa`_id?i*n al-Jann_ab_iy?u@@
ISM: @@al-*Hasan?u@@
NASAB1: @@Ibn?u Bahr_am?i*n@@
NASAB2:
LAQAB: @@'Ab_u Sa`_id?i*n@@
NISBA: @@al-Jann_ab_iy?u@@
KUNYA: 

BORN: unknown
DIED: 300AH

BIO: @@al-Jann_ab_iy?u@@ is the founder of the communities in the Gulf region. He is of Persian descent and originally comes from @@Jann_aba=t?u@@. After he marries into a converted family in @@al-Saw_ad?u@@ either @@*Hamd_an?u*n Qarma*t?u*n@@ or @@`Abd_an?u*n@@ makes him a @@d_a`?i*n@@. He goes back to his homeland and carries @@al-da`wa=t?u@@ to @@Jann_aba=t?u@@, @@S_in_iz?u@@, @@*Tawwaj?u@@ and @@Mahr_ub_an?u@@ as well as in the coast area of @@al-F_ars?u@@. He collects taxes from converts, but soon opposition arises. He has to flee and meets up with @@Qarma*t?u*n@@ who believes in his abilities and sends him with new support to @@al-Ba*hrayn?u@@. In 286AH he settles in @@al-Qa*t_if?u@@ and works as a flour merchant. His first followers are three brothers with the name of @@`Al_iy?u*n@@, @@*Hamd_an?u*n@@ and @@al-*Hasan?u bn?u Sanbar?i*n@@ and their families. Very soon he starts converting the bedouins outside the city and incites them to raids against the unbelievers. The first clan that joins @@al-Jann_ab_iy?u@@ are the @@Ban_u al-'A*dba*t?i@@ from the tribe @@Kil_ab?u*n@@, a tribe that was cast out by the other tribes, following the promise of being in the first rank of the coming kingdom of God. In 286AH @@al-Jann_ab_iy?u@@’s men occupy @@al-Qa*t_if?u@@, in 287AH they are spotted close to @@al-Ba*sra=t?u@@, their main interest is the oasis of @@Hajar?u*n@@ though on which they lay siege. In the close town of @@al-'A*hs_a'?u@@ he constructs a @@d_ar?u al-hijra=t?i@@ for the region, from where @@al-Jann_ab_iy?u@@ reigns like a prince. When the siege of @@Hajar?u*n@@ is still under way the alarmed caliph @@al-Mu`ta*did?u@@ has 2,000 men sent from @@al-Ba*sra=t?u@@ to the oases of @@al-Ba*hrayn?u@@ to regain control. However, at the end of @@Rajab?u*n@@ in 287AH they are defeated by @@al-'Ism_a`_il_iy_un?a@@. @@al-Jann_ab_iy?u@@ has the allegedly 700 captives killed except for the commanding officer who is sent back to the caliph to @@Ba*gd_ad?u@@. Later in the same year @@Hajar?u*n@@ is taken and destroyed, and whoever decides not to convert has to flee. When the schism between the headquarters in @@Salam_iya=t?u*n@@ and @@al-Qarma*t_iy_un?a@@ happens, @@al-Jann_ab_iy?u@@ and his @@jaz_ira=t?u*n@@ follow his mentors in @@al-Saw_ad?u@@; he has his opponent @@'Ab_u Zakar_iy_a'?a al-*Damm_am_iy?u@@, a loyalist to @@al-F_a*tim_iy_un?a@@ killed. At the end of 299AH there is a raid on @@al-S_uq?u@@ of @@al-Ba*sra=t?u@@. In @@_D_u al-Qa`da=t?i@@ of 300AH @@al-Jann_ab_iy?u@@ is murdered by one of his slaves, maybe as a result of @@al-Mahd_iy?u@@ not appearing when @@al-Jann_ab_iy?u@@ had prophesied so. One of his six sons follows as his succesor.
