URI: 0294Zakaroye

SHUHRA: @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n@@
ISM: @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n@@
NASAB1: @@Ibn?u Mihr_uya=t?i*n@@
NASAB2:
LAQAB:
NISBA:
KUNYA:

BORN: unknown
DIED: 294AH

BIO: @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n bn?u Mihr_uya=t?i*n@@ is the son of one of @@`Abd_an?u*n@@’s first missionaries in @@al-Saw_ad?u@@ and comes from the village @@al-Mays_aniyya=t?u@@ close to @@al-*Saw'ar?u@@, four miles west of @@al-Q_adisiyya=t?u@@. He himself is appointed as @@d_a`?i*n@@ in this district, @@al-*Sayla*h_in?a@@, and advances @@al-da`wa=t?u@@ among the tribe @@Kulayb?u*n@@ west of @@al-K_ufa=t?u@@. After the split in 286AH between @@`Abd_an?u*n@@ and the new @@al-*Hujja=t?u@@ in @@Salamiyya=t?u*n@@, @@Sa`_id?u*n bn?u al-*Husayn?i al-Mahdiyy?u@@, he is visited by an envoy from @@Sa`_id?u*n bn?u al-*Husayn?i@@, probably a brother of his, who successfully pulls him over to his side when he promises him that he will be the next head of the @@`ir_aqiyy?u*n@@ cell. @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n@@ begins plotting @@`Abd_an?u*n@@’s murder and has some of his followers from the clan @@Tam_im?u*n@@ of the tribe @@Kulayb?u*n@@ kill @@`Abd_an?u*n@@. His involvement is apparent and he has to hide for a year in the house of a family member. In 287AH he appears again and agitates among the clans of @@'Asad?u*n@@, @@*Tayyi'?u*n@@ and @@Tam_im?u*n@@, but he fails to convince them that the other @@al-Qarma*tiyy_un?a@@ would unite with them after they follow him. In 288AH he turns to bedouins further west of @@al-Fur_at?u@@ and sends two of his sons, @@al-*Husayn?u@@ and @@Ya*hy/a@@, to the tribe @@al-Kalb?u@@ in the desert of @@al-Sam_awa=t?u@@. The clan @@Ban_u al-`Ullay*s?i@@ and their clients as well as parts of the clan @@Ban_u al-'A*sba*g?i@@ join the followers of @@al-Mahdiyy?u@@ in @@Salamiyya=t?u*n@@. In 289AH the envoy mentioned above, the assumed brother of @@al-Mahdiyy?u@@, visits @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n@@ in his hiding place in @@al-`Ir_aq?u@@, who sends him, together with his nephew and one of his slaves, to his son @@al-*Husayn?u@@ with the @@Ban_u al-`Ullay*s?i@@. When his sons are militarilly defeated, @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n@@ sends a letter to the @@Ban_u al-`Ullay*s?i@@, saying that after the death of their leaders the time has come now for the true @@al-'im_am?u@@, namely @@al-Mahdiyy?u@@, to come forth victorious. However, @@Ibn?u S_im_a@@, the governor of @@al-Ra*hba=t?u@@, preemptively attacks the @@Ban_u al-`Ullay*s?i@@ in @@Rama*d_an?u@@ of 291AH. In early 293AH he sends one of his missionaries, @@'Ab_u *G_anim?i*n Na*sr?u*n@@, to the Palmyrene region, who again rallies his supporters and raids several cities before he is killed by unhappy followers. @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n@@’s last envoy to that region is @@al-Q_asim?u bn?u 'A*hmad?a@@ who promises the appearance of @@al-Mahdiyy?u@@ and who can again gather some 800 men to raid @@al-K_ufa=t?u@@ on the @@`_Id?u al-'A*d*h/a@@ of 293AH. When they retreat to @@al-*Saw'ar?u@@, close to @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n@@’s hiding place in @@al-Darya=t?u@@, he finally reveals himself and has @@al-Q_asim?u@@ lead them to the edge of the area that is watered by the Euphrates near @@al-*Saw'ar?u@@. There the government troops catch up with them on 20th or 21st of @@_D_u al-*Hijja=t?i@@ but are defeated by @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n@@’s men. Encouraged by this victory they target the pilgrims’ caravan coming back from pilgrimage in @@al-Makka=t?u@@. On 13th or 14th of @@Mu*harram?u@@ in 294AH they encounter the second of three caravans at the standpipe of @@al-`Aqaba=t?u@@. After some resistence they beat the small escort and loot the riches they can find. The news from this defeat quickly reaches @@Ba*gd_ad?u@@ and the government sends another army to save the third caravan. The two armies meet on 22nd @@Rab_i`?u al-'Awwal?i@@ of 294AH in @@W_ad_i _D_i Q_ar?i*n@@ and within the next two days the bedouins are slaughtered and @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n@@ is slain. His corpse is conserved, brought to @@Ba*gd_ad?u@@ and shown to the public. Still for some time rumours are heard in the villages of @@al-Saw_ad?u@@ that @@Zakar_uya=t?u*n@@ wasn’t dead but would soon reappear.
