URI: 0299Shii

SHUHRA: @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`iyy?u@@
ISM: @@al-*Husayn?u@@
NASAB1: @@Ibn?u 'A*hmad?a@@
NASAB2: @@Ibn?u Zakariyy_a'?a@@
LAQAB: @@al-^S_i`iyy?u@@
NISBA: 
KUNYA: 

BORN: unknown
DIED: 299AH

BIO: @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`iyy?u@@ hails from @@al-K_ufa=t?u@@ where he and his by one year older brother @@'Ab_u al-`Abb_as?i@@ are recruited by a @@d_a`?i*n@@ with the name @@'Ab_u `Aliyy?i*n@@. When he was sent to @@al-Fus*t_a*t?u@@ in Egypt, @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i@@ and @@'Ab_u `Aliyy?i*n@@ accompany him, with @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i@@ being his envoy to @@Ibn?u *Haw^sab?i*n@@ in @@al-Yaman?u@@. In 278AH he leaves Egypt on pilgrimage, and from @@al-Makka=t?u@@ continues on with @@yamaniyy?u*n@@ pilgrims to @@al-Yaman?u@@. After nearly a year as a student of @@Ibn?u *Haw^sab?i*n@@, in 279AH, he goes back to Egypt, again via @@al-Makka=t?u@@. In @@Min/a@@ near @@al-Makka=t?u@@ he and his companion meet pilgrims from the berber clan @@Kut_ama=t?u*n@@ close to @@al-Qus*tan*t_ina=t?u@@, some of whom are also @@^s_i`iyy_un?a@@. They travel together to Egypt and @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`iyy?u@@ manages to gain their trust. He learns that they live more or less independent from any authority since they live in a remote region, are large in number and well-versed in fighting. They ask @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i@@ to come with them and be a teacher among them and although outwardly reluctant he agrees. Via @@*Tar_abulus?u@@ and the oases in @@^Sa*t*t?u al-Jar_id?i@@ the caravan reaches @@S_ujm_ar?u@@ and in early 280AH he enters the Small Kabylia and takes residence in @@'_Ikj_an?u@@ close to @@M_il_a@@ west of @@al-Qus*tan*t_ina=t?u@@ where the @@Ban_u Sakt_an?i*n@@ from the tribe @@J_imala=t?u*n@@ live. Here he starts holding meetings of wisdom (@@maj_alis?u al-*hikma=t?i@@), which he and his brother continue to hold even after @@Raqq_ada=t?u@@ is conquered, and he starts to spread his @@'ism_a`_iliyy?u*n@@ beliefs; very soon this is the topic of speculation among the surrounding villages. During all this @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i@@ has regular contact with @@'Ab_u `Aliyy?i*n@@ in @@al-Fus*t_a*t?u@@ and with the headquarters in @@Salamiyya=t?u*n@@. Very soon the pressure becomes to high and @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`iyy?u@@ has to find a new refuge, he finds it with the @@Ban_u *Ga^sm_an?i*n@@ in @@T_azr_ut?u@@ where he constructs a @@d_ar?u al-hijra=t?i@@. There he gathered strength for several years, so that when the rulers of the three cities @@M_il_a@@, @@Sa*t_if?u*n@@ and @@Bilizma=t?u*n@@ unite with the not yet converted @@Kut_ama=t?u*n@@ his men win the battle. Following this he can convince many more of the berbers of the region to join his cause, the @@'Ijj_ana=t?u*n@@, the @@La*t_aya=t?u*n@@, the @@J_imala=t?u*n@@, the @@Mal_usa=t?u*n@@, the @@Danh_aja=t?u*n@@, the @@'_Ur_isa=t?u*n@@ and the @@Mas_alta=t?u*n@@ who had been @@_h_arijiyy_un?a@@. @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i@@ divides the @@Kut_ama=t?u*n@@ in seven, raises an army from each of these seven groups and appoints a leader for each. He claims no portion in the war loot promotes asceticism and selfless mutual help. Only after being urged to he takes one of the captured slaves as his wife who carries his son. His reign also includes the application of harsh @@*hadd?u*n@@ punishments as well as punishments of shunning and exilation according to the degree of the misconduct. In 289AH his men conquer the first city in the region, @@M_il_a@@. When @@al-Mahdiyy?u@@ comes to @@Sijilm_asa=t?u*n@@ in Morocco, @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`iyy?u@@ regularly exchanges letters with him urging him to come forth, which @@al-Mahdiyy?u@@ refuses though. In 293AH or 294AH he conquers @@*Tubna=t?u*n@@. In 297AH when he is on his way to @@al-Mahdiyy?u@@ in @@Sijilm_asa=t?u*n@@ he puts an end to the rule of @@al-'im_am?u@@ of @@al-_h_arijiyy_un?a@@ in @@T_azirt?u@@. When @@al-'Ism_a`_iliyy_un?a@@ have gained enough strength to publicly defend their teachings @@'Ab_u `Abd?i All~ah?i al-^S_i`iyy?u@@ and @@'Ab_u `Aliyy?i*n@@ hold regular public disputations against @@m_alikiyy_un?a@@, such as @@'Ibr_ah_im?u bn?u al-_Ha^s^s_ab?i@@ and @@Ibn?u al-*Hadd_ad?i@@. The core of these disputations lies of course in the position of @@`Aliyy?u*n@@ and the understanding of the saying of the prophet near the lake @@_Humm?u*n@@, where @@Mu*hammad?u*n@@, according to @@al-^S_i`iyy_un?a@@, designated his nephew as his successor and the one whose commands every @@muslim?u*n@@ has to follow. He writes an autobiography. In 298AH or 299AH he and his brother are dispensed of.
